Well, good morning. We're so excited about today, Baptism Sunday. If you've been around Canaxis, we've been counting down the weeks to today as a crosser.
Also, our locations in Midland, Orillia, and Barrie, we're going to see more people baptized in one day than ever before. And I've got friends being baptized at all locations.
All locations. I know, Barbie, you're being baptized in Midland, and Brian and Aurelia, so excited for you, as well as Sean and your family right here in Barrie. And we're looking forward to celebrating.
to celebrate today with all of our friends and family this morning as they take this step, not just in their own faith, but as we celebrate what Jesus is doing in their lives.
lives. If you've come today as a guest and you've got kind of no background in church or you didn't know what to expect, thanks for joining us this morning. It's really an honor for us to host you. And
And you might be wondering, what is baptism all about? Maybe you've never seen a live baptism, maybe you've seen one in the movies, and you wonder, hey, why do we dunk people underwater and then bring them back?
and bring them up again seems like an odd thing. In a few minutes, I'm going to share with you a little bit about baptism.
But I want to start with a story this morning about this box.
This past summer, I was at a pawn shop with my family and my son, who's nine, his name's Carter, he fell in love with what's inside this box. If you haven't get
I haven't guessed what it is. Okay.
It's a beautiful Smith Corona.
typewriter and he loved it. He was playing with it, got to the point he wanted to buy it.
and he said to me hey dad can i buy that typewriter and the price they got was thirty dollars he had some money he'd saved.
and my cute nine-year-old son of course was able to barter down with this
guy across the counter, i mean who can say no to a nine year old for twenty dollars cash and ah he loves it, he loves typing on it and if you remember these typewriters that kind of come
Kind of clunky. And then they make that...
The ding sound when you get to the end, so awesome. And if you made a mistake, of course, they were kind of hard to manage. You had to kind of figure out how to fix the mistake.
But he loves playing with it. And this past week, he said to me, you know,
He died. I'm working on this project at school. And I said, Oh, what's it about? And he was telling me, he said, we're typing up the report.
Well,, like any kind of dad joke, kind of dad like me is, I said to him, hey,
Why don't you bring your typewriter to school? Of course, he said dad. I can't bring the typewriter. He said to me. We use a computer at school. It's way better. It's a lot faster
And of course, he said to me, you know,
you don't make many when you make mistakes on the computer you can erase them when you make mistakes in the typewriter they're there for good unless i get the liquid paper out
And he said, the typewriter's fun, but it's old. At school, we need to use typewriter.
the computer. Now, you might be here this morning and actually you think about church a lot like this.
typewriter.
right smells a little old and funny at the same time it's got a lot of kind of it's clunky it's kind of something that's nostalgic maybe belongs in a museum
Museum. Some people I know actually have these for decoration at their house, but they never actually use them. It's something that we kind of like having around, kind of like a museum.
Yeah. But it's not really that relevant like this laptop is here. It's not really that relevant. It's not that efficient. It's something for times gone by. And it's
And it's really about rules.
religions really about rules, rules that are really outdated in a lot of ways. Well, you might be kind of surprised to hear this.
But there's a gentleman named Paul. He was a church planner, and he records a letter in the Bible, and that letter is written to a church in Galatia. And he wrote,
And he would actually agree with you.
He would actually agree that rules and religion are something that's no longer relevant and that Jesus himself actually came to change that. And I'm like,
And I want to share that with you this morning, as well as how baptism ties into that. This is what it says in Galatians.
Paul says, before the way of faith in Christ was available to us, before Jesus came, Paul says,
We were placed under guard by the law.
that we had rules that we have to strive towards. That's how they felt. Well, we had all these rules. We got to strive to get to God. He's saying, well, before Jesus came, that was true.
True, those rules, that religion that tried to get us to God, we needed it, but Jesus has changed that. He says this, He says,
We were kept in private custody, so to speak.
Until the way of faith
was revealed. We had to kind of follow those rules until the way of faith was revealed, until Jesus came.
Paul says this, let me put it to you another way.
The law was our guardian until Christ came.
It protected us until we could be made right with God.
Through faith.
But now, and now that the way of faith has come, we no longer need the law,
As our guardian.
You know, they had felt like we need to strive to follow these rules to get to God.
We need to work our way to God. We need to sit at the right time, stand at the right time, read the right things, live the right way. And that was the only way we would please God. He's saying,
saying, that's no longer needed now that Jesus has come, that Jesus wasn't about rules, right?
And that Jesus has changed things, and that now because of his death and resurrection,
we can be children of God.
He actually says this, for you are all children of God through faith,
in Jesus Christ. The reason
That Jesus came, God sent him.
god didn't want a striving to have a relationship with him. god didn't want a striving to have a connection with him, trying to get all the rules right. he knew that wasn't attainable.
And so he sent his son Jesus,
who lived a perfect life, followed those rules perfectly, died as a sacrifice for us, and then rose again so we could not only have a relationship with God now,
But,
Into eternity.
that God sent his son Jesus to change things from religion-based and rule-based to relationship-based. Another way to say it is this: Jesus
36 freed us from religion and
For a relationship,
with God.
Now, what does that have to do with baptism?
because that's why we're here today
Paul goes on to explain.
He said, and all who have been united with Christ in baptism. Now, the reason he says this is because when you chose to follow Jesus, he said, hey, I'm going to be 40.
To be freed from the rules.
And I'm going to follow Jesus and find freedom in that so that I can have a relationship with God. The minute you decided that,
In the early church days, you would be baptized right away.
Some of the people baptized here today maybe chose to follow Jesus a while ago, but they're choosing to be baptized today.
but really the only requirement for baptism is you've chosen to follow jesus and you can be baptized right in that moment he says all have been united with christ in baptism have put
have put on Christ like putting on new clothes. They're being made new clothes.
And then he talks about who this
following Jesus is available to. Who this freedom, when you fall Jesus, who is that even available to?
and paul says this there's no longer jew or gentile slave or free male and female you're all one in christ jesus.
That that finding freedom in Jesus,
Is available
to everyone.
You know, baptism, what baptism really is,
Is a physical picture
Of spiritual freedom.
When we go under the water, it's a symbol of Christ's death.
Coming out of the water is a symbol of his.
resurrection his perfect life and his death on the cross is a sacrifice for us and then a resurrection so that we can have a relationship with God just not
Not just now, but
But forever.
But it's also a physical picture of the person, the individual person's spiritual freedom.
that they've left that life of striving and not following the rules and making mistakes in their life and they've come up out of the water
Forgiven.
Redeemed, restored.
And they're not necessarily perfect.
we're still people we're all people who make mistakes we're all people who have challenges but they've been made free and they can bring those things to Jesus
In relationship.
You see, following Jesus,
Isn't about following rules.
It's about discovering
A relationship
That's what we're celebrating here today.
It's not about rules anymore.
What's about a relationship? We've been made free from the rules.
and been given a relationship with God.
And that's why today,
when you see people being baptized
You're going to see them wearing this shirt that says freedom on it.
Because they found freedom from the rules and they found a relationship with God. It's not about religion.
It's about this relationship.
Forgiveness that we can find, redemption that we can find.
Restoration.
That we can find.
Now, if you're here today and you've got questions about God, questions about what this all means, you're like, wow, Jeff, that was a lot.
I've got a lot of questions about this. I want you to know that we would love to have you back at Connexus, that this place is for you.
To come and bring your skepticism, your doubts, your questions, and discover more,
of that relationship.
And if you're here today and you're saying, hey,
I have a relationship with Jesus. Now I realize I wish I could be baptized. I want to let you know that you're going to have an opportunity to do that later on in the service today. Thank you.
And maybe you're here today and you're like, wow, I get it. This is clicking for me.
I want to begin a relationship with God.
Well, I'm going to pray here in a moment, and I would love for you to pray with me.
And,
Take that moment to begin
That relationship. let's pray together.
God, we thank you for today.
And the chance to celebrate what you're doing in these people's lives.
And for sending your son Jesus.
And for those who are here today and want to begin a relationship with you, I'm asking you to pray with me now. God, I come to you. I thank you for the gift of your son.
And God, I choose to live the life of rule-following and mistakes and sin behind.
and choose to begin a relationship with you today and to follow you. And I want you to know if you're praying that prayer that God is celebrating with you and we are celebrating with you today.
And God, we pray for those who are going to be baptized today, that they know your presence in a real way. We thank you that you sent your son to bring us freedom from religion, freedom from rules,
Rules in the beginning of a relationship.
With you.
And pray all this in your name.
Amen.
Well, if you're here this morning and maybe you prayed that prayer or you've got questions about faith, or even if you've got feedback on the morning, we gave you this connection card today. We would love
We would love for you to let us know that. And you can give it to anybody in an orange shirt. Thank you.
Now in a moment our guest services team are going to come we're going to receive the offering for those of you who call connects us home
Thank you for helping us create churches that unchurched people love to attend. And while they do that, the band has a special piece for us, and I would invite you to remain seated.